.\" Manual page for rift, the self-hosted ngrok-style tunnel agent.
.\" Regenerate rendering checks with: man --warnings -E UTF-8 -l packaging/man/rift.1
.TH RIFT 1 "2026-07-09" "rift 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rift \- expose a local port through the rift gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rift
.I protocol port
.RI [ subdomain ]
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B rift
.BR \-\-version | \-v
.br
.B rift
.BR \-\-help | \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rift
is a self-hosted, ngrok-style tunnel agent. It opens a WebSocket to the rift
gateway and forwards public HTTP requests to a local port, streaming both
directions.
.PP
The tunnel URL banner is printed to standard output; all diagnostics go to
standard error, so a pipeline such as
.B rift http 3000 | ...
yields just the URL line.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I protocol
Application protocol to tunnel. The only supported value in this build is
.BR http .
.TP
.I port
Local TCP port to forward to. Must be an integer in the range 1..65535.
.TP
.I subdomain
Optional desired subdomain. When omitted, the gateway picks one at random.
.SH OPTIONS
Value options accept both
.BI \-\-flag " value"
and
.BI \-\-flag= value
forms.
.TP
.BI \-\-token " token"
Gateway authentication token. Overrides
.BR RIFT_TOKEN .
Has no default; one must be supplied via flag, environment, or config file.
.TP
.BI \-\-server " url"
Gateway
.BR ws:// " / " wss://
URL. Overrides
.BR RIFT_SERVER .
Has no default; one must be supplied via flag, environment, or config file.
.TP
.BI \-\-host " host"
Local host to forward to. Overrides
.BR RIFT_HOST .
Defaults to
.BR 127.0.0.1 .
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " level"
Log verbosity, one of
.BR debug ", " info ", " warn ", " error ", " silent .
Overrides
.BR RIFT_LOG_LEVEL .
Defaults to
.BR info .
.TP
.B \-\-insecure
Skip TLS certificate verification. Applies only to
.B wss
connections.
.TP
.BR \-\-version ", " \-v
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Print usage and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Configuration is resolved from four layers; higher layers win: command-line
flags, then environment variables, then the config file, then built-in
defaults.
.TP
.B RIFT_TOKEN
Gateway authentication token (see
.BR \-\-token ).
.TP
.B RIFT_SERVER
Gateway
.BR ws:// " / " wss://
URL (see
.BR \-\-server ).
.TP
.B RIFT_HOST
Local host to forward to (see
.BR \-\-host ).
.TP
.B RIFT_LOG_LEVEL
Log verbosity (see
.BR \-\-log\-level ).
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory used to locate the config file. Falls back to
.B $HOME/.config
when unset.
.TP
.B HOME
Used to derive the config directory when
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is unset.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/rift/config.json
.PD 0
.TP
.B ~/.config/rift/config.json
.PD
JSON config file providing
.BR token ", " server ", " host ", and " logLevel .
Unknown keys are ignored; invalid types or an unknown
.B logLevel
are a hard error.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Clean shutdown.
.TP
.B 1
Runtime or configuration error (for example, a missing or rejected token).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (invalid arguments).
.TP
.B 130
Terminated by SIGINT (128 + 2).
.TP
.B 143
Terminated by SIGTERM (128 + 15).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Open a tunnel with a random subdomain:
.B rift http 3000
.TP
Request the subdomain \(dqmyapp\(dq:
.B rift http 3000 myapp
.TP
Point at a specific gateway with a token and quiet logging:
.B rift http 8080 \-\-server wss://gw.example.com \-\-token rift_xxx \-\-log\-level warn
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation and the wire-protocol contract ship with the source tree
(README.md, docs/PROTOCOL.md).
